Over the past year, someone who I'd known from the logging industry,
it became public knowledge about his drug use and he ended up losing
his house and access to his children. His addiction really spiralled and
it got to the point where he ended up having a fatal overdose
and he just was not able to access help and in the small
town he felt very isolated. Initially I grew up logging with family
and through that I ended up getting into paramedicine and started working
for BC Ambulance as a paramedic. I've always had a passion for harm
reduction which has now led me to become the manager of the overdose
prevention site in Powell River. Our mission is to try and reduce the
number of overdoses in town and help create a connection between people
who use drugs and other health services. A place of welcome for people
to build a sense of community. Most of our clients are long term
residents of Powell River. Generally, once people come by they feel welcome
and then becomes a regular visit. Often, a lot of people come by
daily. One of our biggest problems is trying to
catch the working class users or people who are casual
with the small town and they just don't feel comfortable coming to a
public setting like the overdose prevention site, potentially identifying
themselves as a drug user. And that's something we haven't really been able
to solve yet. So a lot of people who use drugs here will
really try and hide, hide their use, hide that lifestyle and they don't
seek treatment or help when they need it because of that. Powell River has
the highest amount of fatal overdoses per capita outside of the downtown
east side in BCH. It's become a huge problem.
Between both my jobs, we're seeing the consequences,
far more fatal overdoses on the ambulance now than we used to have
and just all the associated problems with that.
With the closure of our local mill there's been a lot of lost
income and lost jobs there. So people are having a hard time making things
meet, they're much higher stress levels, using more, drinking more
and just a lot of anguish for families.
A lot of partners are having to leave town
for camp work or just alternative work while they try and make ends
meet. So it's added a lot of stress to the community.
Lately, our town's had a huge housing boom which has led to a
really high increase in the price of rent,
which is causing a lot more homelessness. People who used to be able
to be housed just cannot afford to be housed anymore and with that
has led to more drug use, more of the problems with addiction
and it just seems to be spiraling. I'd like healthcare workers to
try and take a step back from the moment. I know it's frustrating
when you see the same clients often and try and approach it as
a fresh meeting. A lot of our clients won't go to the hospital
or do everything they can not to because of past experiences of being
discounted or not treated fairly by the healthcare system.